Can we almost like as a case study,
look at a few people in the tech area that I'm familiar with. And I know, well.
We can,
the only caveat being that I may have no familiarization with them whatsoever,
and you may have to brief me on them.
Yeah. So I'll do my best to brief the,
I I'll do my best to reduce human beings into simple descriptions.
And then you can give me insights of why the hell they're such effective
leaders, uh, based on my description,
not based on your actual deep knowledge of the human beings. <laugh> uh, so,
uh,
that caveat of my inability to speak both English language and describe humans.
Well, let's talk about first Elon Musk.
So he's known being quite harsh
in the sense of first of all, a very high bar of excellence
and, uh,
also willing to what he calls the kind of first principles thinking of asking
the, the questions that hurt, which is
why the hell are we doing it this way? Why can't it be done a lot better?
Not just better, but.
A lot better. So, so let's,
I don't wanna hear his whole character. I'll go one at one section at a time.
So we got a guy that's harsh. Yeah. And,
and asking the really hard questions. How can that be good? Or why is that good?
Well, first of all,
it can be horrible <affirmative> and there's leaders out there that are harsh
and they're hated and no one likes them and no one wants to work for them and
they never do anything. So what is it that Elon Musk does that makes,
gives him the ability to be harsh? So I was, I was, um,
hearing a description of me. Yeah.
When I would give feedback to young seals
that had made mistakes during training operations.
And the description was that I same thing like this harsh
blunt force trauma,
and just totally direct
sledge hammer of truth that I would hit guys with.
But it's interesting because I always talk about, you know,
building relationships and making sure you're not offending someone. Yeah.
So how do these things match up? Well, I can tell you how they match up.
When I was being harsh,
the guys that I was being harsh with knew without one shred of doubt
that I cared about them or than anything else.
And that the reason I was giving them this feedback is because I wanted them to
be able to lead their troops.
I wanted them to be able to go accomplish their mission,
and I wanted them to be able to bring their guys home from war.
So I wasn't being harsh because it elevated my ego. I wasn't being harsh,
cuz I wanted to denigrate them. I was being actually being harsh because I,
them to accomplish the mission.
So if that's where Elon comes from, Hey, listen, we gotta make this happen.
This is for, this is for the good of the world to do this. And people know that,
then it works.
I'll bring this point back up with another guy, Steve Jo,
but let me stay on Elon for a second. The, uh,
the other thing he does, which is interesting I'm I see the value of this.
It'd be great to hear you, uh, speak about it. Is I, unlike mania,
the other CEOs, very rich billionaires, uh,
you know, involved in leaning. A lot of people, he
puts a lot of time into making sure he's on the factory floor.
He famously sleeps on the sort of like in the middle of things and
he puts a lot of effort.
He's also very good at it is being a low level engineer.
So like whatever the task is, he wants to understand the details.
And he'll talk to the lowest level person in terms of like, you know,
somebody who's, uh, like, uh, working,
literally I'm putting parts together.
He wants to understand what the problem is, what the challenge,
if there's an emergency,
he wants to understand the actual details of the problem.
Not like delegating to a manager, but like cuz a lot of CEOs,
a lot of managers will, will, will talk about sort of the,
the power and the importance of delegation here.
He wants to know if there's a big problem. He wants to know the exact detail.
He wants to know the exact Zach problem. He wants to at the fundamental level,
understand how to solve that problem. Uh, whether it has to do with materials,
whether it has to do with the actual manufacturing, the, uh,
mechanical engineering aspect, like we're talking about like engineering,
this is a guy whos, a suit's a CEO tweets about Doish coin,
but like an actual job he's low level engineering.
And that to me was always inspiring to see somebody who knows
what the they're doing. That's what it like,
he gains the respect of engineers at the lowest level.
I don't know if that's scalable, but that's always been inspiring to me.
And I wonder how many people it's inspiring to.
Maybe you could speak to the value of doing that of,
of EV no matter how high their level of leader is to be able to do the low
level.
Yeah. And that's,
that's a common trait that good leaders have and maybe he doesn't necessarily
know how to do everything, a good leader,
but go down there and talk to the frontline troops and say, Hey, what,
what is the issue that you're dealing with? Or you know, how can I support you?
How can I give you help? And what one key point that you said is he said,
when there's a problem, right. He gets in there.
So there's things happening at his companies that they're working.
And so he doesn't have to die. He, I'm not saying he never does,
but he doesn't have to spend as much time working on or,
or looking at some subsystem that's functioning. Well,
he's got a good leader in there. That's handling it.
And he checks in with that leader and the leader says, yeah,
it's working perfectly. He says, great. When there's a problem,
that's when he might have to get down there and dig into some details so that he
fully understands it so that he,
when he digs down in the details and this is important,
he's coming from an altitude where he has a better, bigger perspective,
not necessarily better, but a bigger perspective.
So if you sit there and work on a problem,
whatever for eight hours and you're staring at, you know,
if you were planning a mission and you were,
you were planning it for eight hours, you're staring at the,
the maps and the charts.
And you're figuring out where all the troops are gonna be located.
And I come in after eight hours and I look at your plan from a,
from a distant perspective,
there's a good chance able to see holes in your plan that you couldn't see,
cuz your perspective was too close. So,
so that's good for me to be able to come in from a higher perspective and have a
look at it.
But also there's times where I need to get down there and actually
look, you know, if you're looking at a problem, you say, look,
I can't figure out boss. I can't figure out how to get to this target.
And I'm looking at it from a distance and I don't see,
I might need to start digging in and looking and saying, oh,
here's a route that we can take. That actually makes sense. Let's try that.
So I think it's a good example of someone going up and down
in altitude to look at problems,
understanding what's happening with the frontline troops and at the same time
being able to of go back to the strategic level. And I can, it,
it's probably this way.
The reason that he's successful is because he doesn't get stuck down there.
Yeah. Because if he felt the need to micromanage each and every part on a Tesla,
it wouldn't be,
it would be very unlikely that he would have the capacity to do all that.
Now he can hand over some broad chip design and say, Hey,
this is what the function needs to be.
And he gives it to Lex and Lex goes there with your team and you figured out and
you make it happen. If he had to actually do that all himself,
most likely not possible. So that's what leaders should be doing.
They should go elevate and, and, and,
and then get down in the weeds when they to, and then go back up.
The sad thing. This is the part that makes me not wanna do a startup
is, uh, basically his whole life is dealing with emergencies.
Just like you said, he's not dealing,
this is not shooting these about details of engineering is with
like in the, in the case of the company life and death,
like something that can just completely damage the production line, right?
So he's constantly dealing with emergencies, putting out fires. And um,
I don't know if there's something to be said about that psychology, that,
of how, uh,
like he he's spoken himself that he's worried that his mind can hold up much
longer.
Mm-hmm <affirmative> so hopefully in the near future, he,
he will start to form more decentralized command where he has some subordinate
leadership that he fully trusts and most important that he has properly trained
so that they can handle these day to day fires, at least 80% of them.
So only 20% of the time does he actually need to go in and solve a problem.
If he's not doing that right now, then that's going to end up being a problem.
Anytime I, so I work with companies all the time and that's,
what's interesting about this is I go and work with a CEO or with a,
with a C-suite of a company.
It takes a little while to figure out what's going on. Mm-hmm <affirmative>,
I'm kind of going off of the things that you're telling me. Yeah.
Almost anecdotally, right? Yes. But let's say that what you, and, and also,
I don't know how familiar you,
you actually are with the inner works of his companies. Mm-hmm <affirmative>.
But if we were to assume that what you're saying is accurate,
then my advice would be, Hey, listen,
you need to start putting a little bit more time and effort into training up
some subordinate leadership that has the trust,
knowledge and expertise that you will be able to turn over. Some of these,
some of these details to, for two reasons, number one,
so you can let your brain, um, you, you can,
you can survive a little longer as he put it,
but also all the time that you spend as a leader,
looking down and into your organization is time that you're not looking up and
out. So when you're not looking up and out,
you're not seeing what the competitor's doing.
You're not seeing where the market's going. There's problems. That, that,
that can come from that.
So if right now he's spending too much time looking down and in,
and you mentioned, you know, you said, I don't know if I wanna do a startup,
when you do a startup, you're gonna be looking down and in for a while. Yeah.
It's gonna take a while. You're gonna have to do all this work yourself.
You're not gonna have the finances to put people manpower behind these things.
So that's probably, he, maybe he's in that mindset a little bit,
cuz he's done so many startups over the years.
And so he's in the he's habitually in the weeds.
So my advice would be all right,
let's start looking at formulating some subordinate leadership that has the,
like I said, the expertise, the trust that you can,
you can start to turn over some of these more minute details to
them so that you can start looking up and out. Yeah.
I think he's done that more successful, uh, in someplace than others SpaceX.
A lot of people give, uh, um,
the credit Towe Shotwell for the CEO, um,
the COO of SpaceX as, as a very successful person that runs.
But in Tesla, not as much.
So I wonder if you can comment on something, a lot of people worry about,
and this applies to a lot of tech companies,
which is a lot of people worry about that.
If Elon disappears the, the,
the innovative spirit, the company, as, as we know,
'em today will collapse will stagnate and will basically
fail to do what they've been doing for so many years successfully.
Is there some aspect to, uh,
what makes a good leader that if you disappear,
it's still the thing still lives on and not just lives on, but thrives.
Yeah. So.
What we have to do in those situations is we have to establish a strong culture
inside that organization. And if you are there, there's, there's,
there's reasons why this happens, right?
If I have a big ego and I form a company and I love the fact that everyone looks
at me and says, oh,
Jocko made this company and he's is the creative force behind this company.
And that fuels my ego and it makes me feel good. And uh, you know,
I'm working with you L and every time you come up with an idea, I say,
L you know, you need to stay in your box. Yeah. Right.
So I'm not creating a culture that rewards that sort of
creativity. And eventually when I die,
I won't have a educated my team on how to maintain
that creative aspect. So again,
hopefully inside that organization, he's,
he's encouraging and growing that culture where creativity is
rewarded, where, where it flourishes, even when he's gone,
that's where we have to hope for.
Yeah. Yeah. He, he, he is.
But I also seem to notice that there's not many people like him,
people become complacent too
easily at disappoint. I've been disappointed by people a little bit.
It's like success makes people soft. Uh, with Elon,
it seems like success doesn't have any effect. <laugh>,
it's like the reverse effect. It doesn't, it's like, what's the,
it's always like, what's the next bigger thing. Right.
He's living that exponential growth,
which I think that's the problem that you have to have some,
somebody who's constantly trying to find the 10 X solution,
like trying to constantly improve things. And, uh, restlessly that,
I mean, that probably has to do with finding the right people,
not just creating the culture,
but creating the culture with the right set of people.